Hello and welcome back to the Von's course on our programming.
So far we've done quite a lot in our daily preparation I thought it would be nice to market off here
in our spreadsheet.
So I'm not going to worry about the rows that come underneath that come below.
But basically we'll just park of these red boxes and that will tell us which columns with Talpa.
So we've dealt with the industry call as you recall we removed these rows then we've dealt with the
inception call them we decided to just keep it as is because it's not going to impact our analysis.
Then we've also dealt with the state to call them because we were able to predict or derive 100 percent
certainty what the state is based on the city.
So now we just have a few more left.
And today we're going to talk about the employees call.
We're going to learn how to use the median imputation method to proxy a value into this column and we're
going to talk about the growth column.
And basically the same things could happen.
We're going to learn how to use the median imputation method to proxy our value into the growth column
.
Now I'll explain a little bit more detail what we're doing so that we have a plan of attack for today
So what you can see here is that we've got 500 companies.
And if I highlight this row then you can see that the average number of employees is 148 in or across
all of these companies.
And what we could do is we could just take that number 148 employees and just pluck it into this cell
over here and that is a very coarse median imputation example or that's a good example of a course mean
amputation right so that's not even a second median we're taking the mean.
So the average for this column and we're just putting in here.
So a bit of a step up from that is to take the or rather then for all of these companies is just to
take the companies that are in the retail sector so that's let's have a look at that.
Let's say I want to create I want to create a filter and then I just want to look at the companies that
are indeed only in the retail sector because this company is in the retail sector.
And then if I just go to my column here now if I highlight all of this then you'll see that the average
is 209.
So obviously there are stores where lots of employees are required in the retail sector so the average
has gone up.
And now if we put in this number here two hundred nine that will be a much closer approximation to the
reality because this company does operate in the retail sector.
Why would we proxy it with an average across all of the different sectors including construction including
financial services I.T. services.
They're not very similar.
They're more the companies that are most similar to this company.
Green facts are the companies that also operate in the retail sector so that is an even close approximation
.
You could even take it a notch up you could say All right we're going to look at only companies that
are in the same state in the state which has abreviation SCC you could do that or you could even look
at the same city or other things that might impact us.
And this comes down to your industry knowledge so your knowledge of your daughter said Does it add value
to filter your data set by the same state.
Is there more similarities that way or by YOUR of inception or maybe by the revenue figures what will
give you the biggest similarity in terms of employees.
In our case we're going to limit ourselves by filtering to the same industry because that is a kind
of a very sure very certain approach.
So it's not 100 percent certain but it definitely like it.
It even feels like that looking at a company's in the similar industries is a bit of a more fair approach
than just look at companies across all industries.
If you would like.
You're welcome to take it a notch shop and look at companies in the same state or city or use other
variables as well.
Now that's in regards to similarities and the other thing is that here in Excel we were talking about
the mean but in reality we're going to be looking at the median because the median is less affected
by outliers and if you have massive outlay Here in them please call them.
So maybe it's just sorted by descending here.
So you'll see that we have a company that has seven thousand employees and it is indeed in the retail
sector.
As you can imagine that will skew the average a lot.
So it will increase average whereas if you take the median it won't really impact the median that much
because it's only 1 it's only 1 2 values or in total there's only 9 values out of 500 that are over
1000.
So as you can imagine they will impact the average a lot but not the median as much.
So that's why we're going to be working with the median of values.
All right so there it is.
That's our plan of attack for them please call them the growth.
Exactly the same thing.
We're going to be performing exactly the same procedures.
So let's jump straight into it and get started on this analysis.
And actually I wanted to warn you these next couple of tutorials where we're going to be using the immediate
imputation method they're going to be pretty intense.
So prepare yourself for that.
We're going to do quite a bit of coding.
All right let's get started.
So first thing we want to actually find this median right.
So first thing of course far on this will see that these are empty values and we're dealing with employees
so we have two columns here one in retail with two rows one retail one financial services and so first
of all we're going to find what value we need to put in here.
Right.
We're going to find out the median value so median for our data frame which is fin in the retail sector
so we want to add a filter right so I'm going to put the comment right away.
And here we want well right away we'll just put in the column that we're dealing with employees.
Right.
So this is just all of the whole column for employees around that.
There it is.
If I run this.
That is the median.
That's because we've got an ace and Annie's mess up immediate So what we definitely need to do here
is and a dot r m equals truth so remove and as we run that we can see that the median is 56 in much
less than average.
We can just check the mean for the same data and just to make sure it's the same as what we saw in Excel
as you remember it was 149.
So exactly the same as what we saw in Excel which is good.
Now we're going to get rid of that and with our median what we want to do is we want to take it that
to that next level we want to look at what is in the retail industry so we're going to add a filter
here and he's going beefin dollar sign industry equals double equals Don't forget as Stubley calls retail
in quotation marks.
All right.
So that is our median for that industry.
So once again we've got this filter which subsets our daughter doorframes to only the retail industry
rose and then we're looking at the employees column and then we're taking the median of that column
and we're ignoring any of these.
So if we're on that we get to 28.
So as you can see the median for the hold out of said was 56.
The median for the retail sector is actually 28 so it's it is actually the opposite.
Very interesting so that we saw that the me the average increased when we looked at just the retail
sector.
So if I replace that with the mean average you can see that the average increase from 149 to 209 but
the median decreased.
Very interesting observation and might be a bit counterintuitive as opposed to what we discussed before
.
But nevertheless that's the result we want.
We want that proxy number want this number 28.
So what we could do right now we could put it into that and roll that we wanted to put it into right
away like right now we could put it in there.
But a word of caution it's always a good idea.
It's always good idea to save these statistics into separate variables or vectors because before you
override the daughter because once you override the sounds you've now affected the media and you're
if you want to recalculate the media and then you will already be including that new value that you're
putting in there so it's always a good idea to save these values.
And we're going to do exactly that.
We're going to put this value into median employee retail so we remember what columnist for and what
filter we applied to the retail sector.
We're on that.
And now we've got our median employee retail here 28.
Beautiful.
So now what we want to do is we want to replace that row.
We want to replace that roll with that value we can.
Once again we can dress the roll by itself using the ID or the wrong name.
But what we're going to do is we're just going to create a filter just assuming that there could have
been multiple rows that we want to deal with.
And you know that's good practice for the future so let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to say fin.
And then we want to say is dot and they fin adults sign them please right.
So we're looking at the column for employees we're finding everything that's is a missing value in there
and then we're subsetting by that then we want to say nothing of course but we want to add additional
filter because we're just run that we'll get the retail and the services industry.
So we want an additional condition here.
We want to say and fit and dollar sign whereas my dollar sign here it is industry double equals retail
quotation marks right so far on that.
Then we have that same one line that we do need to replace for green facts.
And now we know we are just going to work with them please call them.
We're going to replace that with a median employee retail so far on that.
Now we just want to check and we want to pick out that one row that we are we were working with which
is roll number three.
So just on that as you can see employees is 28.
So we have successfully applied the median imputation method.
Congratulations.
It's a big big step in Darling Daughter preparation of course.
All right.
And now we need to do the same exact thing for this other company which we have here and the financial
services sector which has no place so I encourage you to post this video and practice that so do the
same thing check for the mean median.
Where was it.
So just basically check for the I mean media and everything and how they change if you include the industry
non-recognition and then just perform this.
And now I'm going to do the same thing here so I'm going to basically copy this and let's have a look
at the mean for instance and see how the mean changes for financial services.
So the mean is 211 while that's for the financial services so basically what I wanted actually to do
is get rid of this filter so don't filter that industry.
And just for everything 248 then it becomes 211 so it goes up.
And now if I look at the median for the same two what is the median.
It was 56 and then it goes to 80.
So the median also goes up in this case.
Very interesting.
OK.
So now what we want to do is we want to just perform the same calculations or same assignments and we're
going to create a variable here will say Fin's serve.
Financial services run that and now we have this which should contain our 80 value which is good.
And now we just want to assign it so same as here we are trading this filter financial services right
.
So there it is it's we're checking that it is and they are missing value and the industry is financial
services.
And now we just working with the same row but we're signing the employees column a value which we've
saved over here.
There we go so far on that.
And now we have a look at it check.
So financial data set bro.
Not all of it.
Name 330 comma nothing.
So Westminster with Spencer financial financial services and we've successfully applied immediate imputation
method.
Again congratulations.
So if I now run this you will see that we only have four more rows to deal with.
We are getting very close to completing our daughter preparation phase.
It's getting very exciting and I hope the immediate computation method made sense.
It is a very powerful method for lots of different types of analyses and I encourage you to practice
it whenever you have a chance to just so that you get the hang of it and then you see all these ways
you can increase your similarity of what you're producing to other records in your data set.
And on that note I look forward See you in the next tutorial.
Until then be coding